Book of Short
Stories
PRINTED AND BOUND UNDER
SUPERVISION OF
K. E. KILLEEN, DIRECTOR OF
HANDIWORK
bookofshortstories.com2	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
	
A book of Short Stories	
The New City Hall
Your Little Friend
the Fifth Grade Book
Josephine Muscia
Dear Fifth Graders:
How do you do! I am the little book that you have
made. I have many little stories. They are very interest-
ing. I hope you will enjoy them. They may not be exactly
like the works of the great authors, but they are your
thoughts and word pictures and I am sure you will love
them. Take good care of me and I will bring you many
happy hours.
School No. 2 	
February 18, 1931
The new City Hall was started in 1929 and will be
finished in 1932. The City Hall is thirty two stories high.
How I like to watch the men at work! I like to watch the
elevator carry the men up so high. Sometimes I see the
men walking on the top. I wonder if they are afraid to
walk there? I see so many trucks bringing stones for the
building. The put them on a long rope and a machine
pulls them to where they are needed. I saw a man go up
with the stones. The workers throw the broken bricks
down a long square box at the side of the building.
School No. 2	
John Galante
* The Song of the Lark
From the rustic village pleasant
Came a sturdy working peasant
Now she stops to listen. Hark!
Hear the pretty warbling lark.
Now the lark is soaring high
Disappearing in the sky.
Peasant pictures he did paint
The artist thought them very quaint.
School No. 64	
Jean Parkes
Little Owl Golf Course
One day last summer my sister and I planned to make
a golf course. We took our wagon and went down to
the dumps for some broken bricks. When we got back
bookofshortstories.com3	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
we made a horseshoe with the bricks. We found a toddy
can and dug a hole to put it in. This was called hole num-
ber one. There were several of our playmates who asked
if they could help make the rest of the golf course. Our
new helpers got their wagon to get more bricks from the
dumps. Then we had enough bricks to make eight more
holes. Of course we needed to have some more cans. My
sister go busy looking fro them while we finished the
rest. Now that it was finished we decided to divide all
the money we got.
After working hard we all looked pretty dirty. We
went home to get cleaned up. First think I knew my pals
were calling me. We decided to call it “Little Owl Golf
Course”, and charge three cents a round or two for a
nickel. One of the boys said, “I will make two signs.” On
the signs he painted in colors, “Little Owl Golf Course”,
with an arrow pointing through it saying, “Three cents
a round, two rounds for a nickel.” One sign was tacked
on the billboards on Walden Avenue west of the D.L.W..
The other was tacked on our tree.
Of course we had only three sticks and two balls to
start with.
We had quite a few customers that night. It was get-
ting dark and the people could not see the holes in the
dark. I went in and got my father’s lantern from the
cellar. Three or four other boys got their lanterns out
because customers were coming fast. With more light
business picked up. so many grown ups and children
came to look on they interfered with the players. We
	
A book of Short Stories	
had to borrow a washline from the lady next door. We
stung it up so no one would interfere with the players.
Then one of the boys’ father said if my father would let
us string lights from our garage he would supply the
extension cord. Mother said, “Yes.” It didn’t take long
and up went the lights. It was now daylight at the golf
course. We even had reserved seats for our guests. One
of tour seats was donated. It was a discarded cot bed.
The other two were auto seats we found in the dumps.
If it happened that we goat a guest with a white gown
we brought out chairs from the kitchen.
As business picked up we bought more sticks and
balls. We also decided to whitewash our golf course.
Mother gave us the whitewash, but we had to hunt for
the brushes. Between seven of us we found two brushes.
One of the brushes was two inches wide. The other was
an inch wide. We all took turns in whitewashing our
golf course. My sister wanted to get done in a hurry. This
is how she did it. She would pickup up brick by brick
and dip them in the whitewash. She finished before we
did with our brushes. However she was whitewash from
head to foot. That night it happened that Uncle Jack and
his wife came to play golf. I suppose you all know him.
He speaks over the radio to the children sunday after-
noon from W.E.B.R. He liked our golf course so well he
gave us numbers to number our holes.
He announced our golf course over the radio. He said,
“Children over 80 years of age admitted free.”
Our business continued until the cold weather start-
bookofshortstories.com4	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
ed. When we finished we had earned nineteen dollars.
We divided the money. I am saving mine for a rainy day.
We stored the bricks and the stove pipes in our garage,
so we will have them next summer. It’s no fun look-
ing for bricks in the dumps. We will open again in the
spring. Be sure to come. It is located behind my home at
37 Wagner Place.
School No. 64	
Robert Schmerbach
* Canyon of Beauty
Over the precipices high it pours,
Down at the bottom away it roars.
As we all know it is one mile deep,
And the walls on the sides are oh so steep !
Down at the bottom, like a silver thread,
One mile below it has made its bed.
What has made this wonderfule sight ? you may ask;
The Colorado River has done the task.
School No. 67	
Cecelia Seifert
Centuries of Record Keeping
Cecelia Seifert
Long ago, in the ancient world, people did not write
as we do now, but they drew pictures to show what
they wer talking about. An owl’s haed meant “m”. That
is how we got our letter “m”. When they wanted to
show thirst they would draw a icture of a calf running
toward a stream of water. If something was sad they
	
A book of Short Stories	
would draw an eye with tears. When the were happy
they would draw a smiling face. The Chinese, who dis-
covered paper making, outh to be thanked for showing
us how to do it.
School No. 12	
Cecelia Seifert
The Discovery of Electricity
In the old Quaker city of Philadelphia the people were
laughing at a man named Benjamin Franklin. Benjamin
Franklin who is now known as the famous discoverer
of electricity. One day the people brought news that Mr.
Franklin was making a kite. The people did not laugh
because they thought it was a kite that was being made
for a boy. Another day the people that passed Benjamin’s
house said that he was flying it. The people laughed be-
cause it seemed foolish for a grown man to fly a kite. Mr.
Franklin made his kite out of silk handkerchiefs, with
a hemp string fro flying. At the bottom of the string he
attached a metal key and a silk cord to hold on to.
One day when it was thundering and lightning Ben-
jamin flew his kite. he was happy because no one saw
him. As the first cloud passed by nothing happened.
When the second cloud passed, he felt a shock as he
touched the key. At last he had proven to himself that
lightning was electricity. Later he built lightning rods
to protect the houses from burning. His name then be-
came known all over the United Sates and Europe. We
still honor the name of Benjamin Franklin.
School No. 1	
Clar Gaeta
bookofshortstories.com5	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
Sulphur
Lily Drewitt
Sulphur is a very important mineral product of the
south. Louisiana and Texas are the leading states for sul-
phur. It is important in making things white. Sulphur
makes pages of books pure what and also makes sugar
white. The farmer also uses it in fertilizer. It is used in
liguids for the sparying of the trees and plants to kill the
insects on them. There are many rubber thanks made
from sulphur too. In order to get the sulphur to the sur-
face men bore deep wells into whcih they force hot wa-
ter. This melts the fulphur. Then they use compressed
air to drive the melted sulphur up throught pipes to the
surface. When it cools it forms into hard yellow rocks.
Workmen will then blast the sulphur rock. Then the
big steam shovel will pick up the pieces and drop them
in freight cars which are waiting for loads. These will
carry them to manufacturing cities in differnt parts of
the United States.
School No. 6	
Lily Drewitt
A Good Lesson For Me
One summer night my mother told me that we were
going to have company and that I should act very polite-
ly. then when our company came I forgot what mother
said and started to fight with my brother and made a
great deal of noise. Later one of the ladies came up to
me and told me that I should never fight in the presence
	
A book of Short Stories	
of company. Then when the company had gone I got a
scolding for being so disorderly. I was sent to bed with a
good spanking. That was a lesson I shall never forget.
School No. 3	
Concetta Limeri
Roland, The Brave Lad
Long, long ago in a city of France there lived a king
who had a beautiful daughter named Elizabeth. One
day as she was walking through her garden a fierce
dragon swooped down upon her and carried her away.
There was a great sorrow throughout the land.
Her father said that he would give the hand of his
daughter and half of his kingdom to the man who would
save her.
Ther lived not far from the palace a lad whose name
was Roland. when he heard what the king had said he
decided to go and try his luck. He set out on his journey
to the palace.
On his arrival he asked to see the king. When he was
admitted he told him that he would save his daughter or
get killed by the dragon. The king told him to stay over
night and rest.
The next day he set out on his journey. When Ro-
land came in sight of the dragon’s cave he hid behind a
rock. Suddenly the dragon came with fire coming from
his nose and mouth. Roland was near by and drew his
sword, swung it with all his might upon the dragon. he
gave a fierce cry of pain and fell dead.
Roland went into the cave and brought out the prin-
bookofshortstories.com6	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
cess and took her to the palace. Later Roland and Eliza-
beth were married.
School No. 4	
Nicholas Florko
The Lone Hawk
One fine day during the World War a lone American
War plan soared high above the war scarred land be-
low. As it sped on, its pilot spotted an enemy plan and
soon began to go higher. He recognized the German pi-
lot as the greatest Ace of Aces. The American plan flew
down and shot many bullets into the German’s cockpit.
The battle raged on until at last the American shot the
German down. The victory was won. The American Ace
felt that a day’s work was done.
School No. 8	
Henry Puattander
A Prize Winner
On the corner of Walden Avenue and Burgard Place, I
saw a very interesting sight. The big house was all light-
ed up, but I liked the yard best.
There was a tree, all trimmed and lighted. It went
around in a circle. Near it, a lighted airplane flew about.
Santa Claus sat in a sleigh filled with toys and drawn by
reindeers. These were real ones that had been stuffed.
The lights on this went on and off. When they were on,
Santa’s eyes were blue.
He seemed to be on his way to a small lighted house,
in which were dalls for people, and a small lighted tree,
	
A book of Short Stories	
waiting for his coming.
At the top of a large tree in the yard was a large light-
ed star. A stuffed monkey was trying to climb this tree.
In a ring were two squirrels having a boxing match to
see which would win a nut. About the yard were dogs
whose eyes lighted up. A large owl kept blinking up in
a tree.
We thout it was a very pretty sight, and were very
glad when we heard that Adam Smith, the owner, had
won first prize in our neighborhood which was fifty
dollars. I think the crowds of people who came to see it
every night must have been glad too.
School No. 9	
Ruth Mallon and Florence Ogorek
Sheep, Autumn
“Sheep, Autumn”, was painted by a Dutch artist
whose name was Anton Maure. A weary white-haired
farmer is returning home from the hills where he has
been watching his flock of sheep. In his right arm he has
a baby lamb. He holds a crooked stick in his left arm.
Running along beside the shepherd is a brave helpful
dog. The tired lambs trudge along behind because they
can’t keep up with the others. I think this picture is very
interesting because it shows a shepherd in Holland.
Jack Edwards
School No. 13
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer
Edgar Small
The heroes of this story by Mark Twain are Tom Saw-
bookofshortstories.com7	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
yer and Huckleberry Finn.
Tome and Huck were treasure hunting. They decid-
ed to try the haunted house first. Upon entering they
crept upstairs to explore. They went into a closet which
promised mystery. But the promise was a fraud -- ther
was nothin in it. The wer about to go down stairs when
----
“Sh ! --- There !---Hear it?”
“Yes!---Oh, my ! Let’s run!”
“Keep still! Don’t budge they’re coming toward the
door.”
The boys stretched themselves upon the floor with
their eyes glued to knot-holes in the planking, and lay
waiting in misery and fear for the worst to happen. If
you would like to know the outcome of this incident
read, “The Adventures of Tom Sawyer”, by Mark Twain.
School No. 15	
Edgar Small
Why The Owl Flies At Night
Long, long ago when the earth was young, there was
no fire on the earth. A little wren offered to go to the
sun and get some. He returned in a short time with a fire
grand in his beak, but his breast was badly scorched. A
kind robin proposed that all the other birds should give
the wren a feather. All offered to do this except the owl.
Since the owl was so selfish the other birds became his
enemies. So the owl has never dared to fly in the day-
time since.
School No. 16	
Jack Severson
	
A book of Short Stories	
Picknicking
Some of the best times we have in the summer are
when we have picnics. We pack a lunch basket and get
into the car and off we go. After a while we stop at a
park and get out. We look around and find a nice place
with an open fireplace. Daddy starts a fire and puts the
wieners on the grate. After the wieners are down we
put them inside of rolls. Everything tasts so good what
we want to eat and eat. After we are thru eating we
pack our basket and get into the car and have a lovely
ride home.
School No. 17	
Carol Schaal
Daniel Boone
Daniel Boone was the leader of the early pioneers. he
was born in Pennsylvania in the year 1735. BOone lived
at the same time that Washington did. When he was a
boy he tried to live like the savages because he loved the
out of doors. When he was eighteen years old he went to
live in Kentucky. He enjoyed the freedom of the wilder-
ness. Though he lived a wild, rough life, he was kind to
everybody. Boone was a great and clever hunter. Before
the Revolution, he pushed over the wall of the Appala-
chian Highlands. After this daring crossing, other peo-
ple had the courage to cross this barrier too. These brave
pioneers opened up the rich lands of the Middle West
in Kentucky. Boone built a fort to protect the territory
from the attacks of the Indians. Once Boone was cap-
bookofshortstories.com8	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
tured by the Indians and was adopted by a squaw who
had lost her son. He pretended to like the Indians’ way
of living. He remained with them a long time. he finally
succeeded in escaping from them. After many danger-
ous adventures beyond the frontier, he diat at the age of
eighty-five in the year 1820.
School No. 19	
Robert Koen
The Story of Fire
Many, many years ago people did not have warm, cosy
houses like ours to live in. They lived in caves where it
was both dark and cold. Once when a great storm was
raging a tree was struck by lightning and the flash set it
on fire. It happened to fall near a cave where some of the
cave people were hiding. They were frightened at first
and huddled in a group. After the storm was over they
ventured out to look at the burning tree. One of them
took a burning branch and brought it into the cave.
They discovered that it made the cave both warm and
light. They wanted the fire to keep on burning so they
fed it with sticks and dry leaves. From this time on fire
became a great blessing to man.
School No. 21	
Ida Wolchok
	
A book of Short Stories	
his head. We lifted him gently out of his box. The next
thing was to try him on his feet. He could scarcely stand
up. He was only a week and a half old. In about three
days he could walk. Now we let him out. In a day or so
he seemed to like it better out than in. One afternoon I
took him out for a run and he ran away. I went to bed
that night very sad. And in the morning I woke up and
found him barking at the side door.
School No. 22	
Raymond Saar
Cotton
Cotton is raised in the southern part of the United
States. It requires plenty of rain, seven months grow-
ing season, rich soil, and a warm climate. Negroes work
for the owners of the cotton plantation. Before the cot-
ton gin was invented by Eli Whitney the negroes had to
pick the seeds out of the cotton by hand. In 1916 the cot-
ton boll weevil destroyed twenty-five million dollars
worth of cotton, so now many of the plantation own-
ers raise vegetables instead. The cotton seed oil is made
into soap and salad oil. The United States raises more
cotton than any other country in the world. I would like
to see a cotton plantation.
School No. 25	
Milton Gaiser
Tippy
My dog’s name is Tippy. He is a little white fox terrier.
I can remember the first day we received him. He came
in a black box and the only thing that was exposed was
A Fishing Trip
One nice day last summer my father and I decided to
go fishing. We left early in the morning, crossing over
bookofshortstories.com9	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
Niagara River on the ferry.
We stopped at a fisherman’s shanty on the river and
bought a pail of minnows. With these, our fishing
tackle and lunch, we started up the river to an old ship
yard. The docks and ships were falling apart. The fish
like to stay around the old piling and sunken ships. We
fished for a while but caught nothing. Then I wandered
around into different spots. Finally I dropped my line
right into a school of perch. I called my father and he
came running. Between us we caught over thirty perch
in less than a half hour. Of course my father caught the
most. In the excitement the lunch blew into the river, as
we had just about started to eat when I found the school
of fish. The sea gulls happened to be very plentiful at
this point. Soon they ate the lunch, we ate the fish and
everybody was happy.
School No. 23	
Douglas Schnorr
Sheep In Spring
The artist of this painting is a native of The Nether-
lands. His name is Anton Mauve. In this picture he is
trying to describe his native land. The picture shows a
shepherd tending his flock of sheep. His faithful pal, the
dog, is standing at his side.
The sheep are grazing in a quiet, peaceful meadow
which has a tiny brook rippling over some pebbles.
There is also a winding path guarded by tall soldier-like
trees which lead to a farm house that is nestled down
among the trees and bushes. This is probably the home
	
A book of Short Stories	
of the shepherd. This place is so cozy and peaceful that
I wish I lived there.
School No. 24	
Virginia Cummings
Riding on a Cloud
One stormy December afternoon very near Christmas,
I lay in bed ill.All of a sudden I saw a big cloud outside
my window puffing away. It asked me if I wanted to pay
Santa Claus a visit. I made haste getting on the cloud,
and we floated along swiftly till we came to Santa’s Ice
Palace. There we saw many little elves working busily,
and of course we saw Santa Claus and his wife, Mrs.
Santa Claus. Now Mrs. Santa Claus was just bringing a
lovely big dinner for Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus and my-
self, when she dropped the tray with a big “bang”. But
I awoke only to find my mother brining me my dinner.
She had just dropped my glass of milk.
School No. 26	
Beatrice Mace
A Scare
One night last week about midnight, when we were
all in bed, there came a rap on the door. My father got
up to see what it was. He opened the door and looked
all around but couldn’t see anything. My sister’s pock-
etbook lay on the table.
All of a sudden the rap came on the back door. My fa-
ther went to see who it was. When he got there nobody
was there. So he closed and locked the door. He went in
bookofshortstories.com10	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
to lock the front door. To his horror he found the door
wide open and my sister’s purse gone.
The next morning we heard about three other robber-
ies around the town. About a month later they found the
men who did it. They were arrested and sent to prison.
School No. 27	
Louis Schroeder
Our Sand Table
During our study of geography in the South Atlantic
States we built a sand table describing a cotton plan-
tation. On our sand table we have a grinning house, a
train load of cotton that is to be taken away, and pick-
ers with bags of cotton on their backs. One of the pick-
ers has the cotton she picked in a basket weighing it.
We have a road running through the cotton plantation.
On the road there is a truck on its way to the grinning
house. Our sand table has helped to make the study of
cotton more interesting.
School No. 28	
Georgia West
An Explorer of the Gobi Desert
Dr. Roy Andrews and his party of forty men have
traveled in a great caravan, of seven automobiles and
one hundred twenty-five camels, into the Gobi Desert of
China. The are searching for skeletons of men and ani-
mals that are supposed to have lived millions of years
ago. They are examining the rocky places and digging
deeply into the sand for relics.
	
A book of Short Stories	
First the explorers found bits of jewelry that were
made of ostrich egg shells. There were holes in the shells
where they had been fastened together.
Soon after this the party discovered dinosaur eggs
in a ledge of rock. Those eggs were the first ones that
had ever been found although the skeletons of dinosaurs
have been discovered in many parts of the world. Today
you may see this ledge of rock containing the eggs in the
museum in New York City.
Lately they discovered the skull and bones of the
largest animals that lived. These bones were sent to
the New York museum, too. since there was no picture
of this strange beast called the baluchiterium, it was a
puzzle to match and fit the bones together. When it was
finished it looked like an elephant without a trunk. It is
like a giraffe without a long neck. It is like each one and
yet it is very different.
Although Dr. Andrews has not found the skeletons of
men his work is very valuable for he thinks that he has
found the place where the oldest race in the world once
lived.
School No. 29	
Robert Rogan
The Coming of the White Man
The picture “The Coming of the White Man” was
painted by George Reid. He was born on a farm in Can-
ada. He liked to paint colorful pictures. When he grew
up his father sent him to a university to study.
In this picture we see some Indians who have fled into
bookofshortstories.com11	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
the woods. They are staring at some ships in the dis-
tance. They think these are birds from heaven because
they have never seen any boats except their canoes.
I like this picture because it is so colorful and because
of the story it tells.
School No. 30	
Robert Baxter
The Parson and the Clerk
There was once a parson who was such a tyrant that
whenever he met anyone on the road he would cry out,
“Out of my way!”
One day it happened that he met the king on the road
and he did not recognize him. He called out as usual,
“Out of my way!” But the king kept on and it was the
parson who had to turn his horse.
“Come to see me tomorrow,” called the king. “If you
can not answer three questions I will ask you, you will
lose your position as parson.”
“Well,” thought the parson, “all this is fine except I
can’t answer any questions. I’ll get the clerk to go in my
place.”
The following morning he sent his clerk to the king.
When the clerk appeared the king said, “Well, I see
you’re here.”
“Yes, sire,” answered the clerk.
“Tell me, said the king,” how far is the east from the
west?”
“Just a day’s journey,” replied the clerk.
“How is that?”
	
A book of Short Stories	
“Well, the sun rises in the east and sets in the west
and he makes the journey nicely in one day.”
“Tell me how much do you think I am worth as I stand
here before you?” asked the king.
“Our Lord was worth thirty pieces of silver,” an-
swered the clerk, “so I couldn’t price you any higher
than twenty-nine.”
“Well done,” exclaimed the king, “but can you tell me
what I am thinking of now?”
“You’re thinking the parson stands before you, but
you are mistaken, sire, because I am only the clerk.”
“Well then, go home abe be you parson and let him
be clerk.”
And so it ended.
School No. 32	
Grace Schallowhorn
Ace High
There once was an aviator who was called Ace High.
He was called Ace High because he won cups and med-
als for records and tricks that no other aviator could
perform. When the World War broke out he went as
an aviator. One day five American aviators went out and
met with a German airship. Ace High was one of the
five to fight with the German airship. Ace High’s part-
ner was killed. Consequently he drove and took charge
of the machine gun. After one hour of fighting with the
enemy Ace High wa the only one left. The men in the
airship shot their machine guns at him but could not
hit him because he did tricks. Ace High tried to get on
bookofshortstories.com12	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
top of the airship so he could drop a bomb on it but ev-
ery time he tried the airship would go up higher. There
were twenty-five men in the airship and Ace high shot
six of them. One of the men in the airship shot ace high
in the shoulder but he didn’t give up. Ace High fought
and fought and fought. At last he got on top of the air-
ship and dropped a bomb on it and the German airship
went down in flames. Ace High went back to quarters
and told his story. he received a medal for what he had
done. When the war was over he went home to his par-
ents and told about the fight he was in. He received sev-
en medals during the war. The people then called him
“The Hero of the Air.”
School No. 31	
Benny Buchberg
The Young Woodchopper
It was the last day of school and four boys were walk-
ing home. Their names were Time, Jack, Bill and Joe.
Time said, “Let’s go fishing Wednesday if it’s a nice day.”
So all boys agreed. Then they went home.
Jack’s mother said, “Jack please go to the store for
me.”
Jack pouted and said, “Let sister go.” So his sister
went.
On Wednesday Jack was just leaving the house when
his mother said, “Where are you going, Jack??”
Jack answered, “I am going fishing with the boys.”
Jack’s father said, “No, you disobeyed your mother
yesterday, so go out into the back yard and chop all the
	
A book of Short Stories	
wood in the pile.”
Just then the boys came along and said, “Come on,
Jack, we are going fishing.” Jack did not answer but he
just looked at them.
Jack’s dog looked up as if to say, “Do not go Jack, you
would be disobeying your parents.” Jack did not go. That
evening the boys came home and Tim had fallen into the
pond and had gotten all wet, but Jack was glad he did
not go because he might have fallen in the water too.
School No. 33	
Jemima Moyle
Origin of Rivers
Long, long ago there weren’t any rivers. One day the
fairy folk were playing on a mountain atop. They were
digging a hold and a fountain sprang out of it. The water
flowed down the side of the mountain until it reached
the valley below and formed a river. Ever since the we
have rivers.
School No. 36	
Rosaria Zizzo
Why the Fir Tree is Evergreen
Long, long ago there was a fir tree which was always
unhappy because it could not keep its needles. A flock
of birds was flying south. One little bird broke it’s [sic]
wing and could not go any farther. It asked the poplar
tree for help, but it refused. It asked the elm tree, but it
refused. So it went to the fir tree and it said, “Yes, I will
take care of you.” Mother Nature heard of this. She went
bookofshortstories.com13	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
to the fir tree and gave it one wish. It wished it could
keep its needles all year round. That is why the fir tree
has its needles all the year round.
School No. 46	
James Beam
Jack and the Sugar Cane
Jack Frost was tired and discouraged. For years he
had stood like a tin soldier on the side of a blue box
holding a tablet in his arms and smiling, smiling all the
time. It began to be harder and harder to smile and the
tabled seemed ever so heavy.
Finally Jack thought of a plan. he would get his
twin brother, who looked like him, to take his job for a
month. After all, he reasoned, when you’re a trade-mark
you ought to know all about the thing you represent.
So the next morning a boat left with Jack aboard.
Soon they landed in Havana, Cuba and Jack stepped off
the boat. He did not stay in the city of Havana, though it
was very interesting and modern, but drove quickly out
into the open country. There he found, as far as he could
look, acres and acres of sugar cane. Some of the sugar
cane reached as high as twelve feet in the air. When he
walked into the fields Jack saw that the sugar can was
something like bamboo, with joints up and down the
stalk and wide grass-like leaves and feathery flowers
all up at the top. The dark natives dressed in loose gar-
ments and big sun hats walked through the rows in the
blazing sun, cutting the canes with a very sharp knife
called a machete. Then they loaded the canes on an open
	
A book of Short Stories	
cart drawn by oxen.
Finally they reached the sugar mill or central, as it
is called, and drove into a big yard. In the mill a very
nice man who seemed to be the mill superintendent
explained what happened to the sugar cane. First, the
canes were crushed between great rollers and all the
juice squeezed out. Then this juice was chemically
treated with lime and then heated, with the result that
the dirt and straw and other impurities went to the bot-
tom of the tanks and the pure cane juice came to the
top. The third step was to syphon the pure juice off into
another tank. It was so thin it looked just like colored
water to Jack. He watched them apply heat to these big
closed tanks and gradually this thin fluid turned to a
syrup.
The syrup was then run into what was called vacuum
pans with heated copper coils in them. As it came out
of the pans it was a sticky substance with tiny granules
all through it, and the man explained that the granules
were really sugar floating around in molasses. The next
step was to get it separated from the molasses, and this
was done in great round drums which spun around at a
terrific speed so that the molasses ran out through the
holes. The brownish raw sugar was then ready to be
shipped. It was packed in burlap bags, about 320 pounds
to a bag, and shipped away from the central. These bags
were loaded on the boat, which Jack boarded, bound for
home.
The boat docked at the pier after reaching New York
bookofshortstories.com14	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
and Jack watched them unload the great bags and won-
dered how it was made into the glistening white crys-
tals that had come out of his boxes. He soon learned
how raw sugar was made into lovely, white sparkling
sugar in the sugar refinery. The bags were emptied and
the raw sugar carried up into the building by endless
bucket elevators and dumped into a long mingling
trough.
The raw sugar in the mingling trough was then mixed
with syrup and the whole mushy mixture was passed
into a big mixing tank to separate the crystals from the
syrup, after which the mixture was run into big cen-
trifugal drums like those Jack had seen in Cuba and as
they spun around rapidly the liquid flew off through
the fine wire mesh of the drums and the washed crys-
tals were left begind [sic]. These washed crystals were
melted in hot water and certain substances added to
clarify it and the whole mixture was pumped through
closely woven cloth in the filter presses. After this there
was still one more purifying process through which to
go, so the liquid was run through great tanks of bone
black, eighteen or twenty feed deep, called char filters.
The liquid which flowed out of these filters was no lon-
ger muddy and colored but clear and sparkling like pure
spring water. Again the liquid went into the big whirl-
ing drums but this time the crystals left on the inside of
the drums were pure glistening white sugar.
Jack’s adventure was over and he had to go back to his
job, but now he was happy and was really glad to be the
	
A book of Short Stories	
Jack Frost trade-mark, as he knew what he represented
and he was proud to be the guarantee of every package
of sugar that went out of his refinery. So with a smil-
ing face, contented and proud, he took the tablet from
his brother and stepped back onto the side of the blue
pasteboard box.
School No. 37	
Jane Roehner
Sir Galahad
Once, long centuries ago, there lived a very brave
knight whose name was Sir Galahad. He belonged to
King Arthur’s Round Table. In the Court of Camelot,
King Arthur’s Castle, there was a chair which threat-
ened death to any knight who sat upon it, but Sir Gala-
had, who was the purest, bravest knight in the world.
Because he was so pure he could see the Holy Grail for
which all the knights were searching. This was the cup
from which Our Lord drank at the Last Supper. Of all
the knights Sir Galahad was the best.
In our room we have a very beautiful picture of Sr
Galahad. In the foreground we see this knight standing
beside his snow white horse. His steed’s head is bend-
ing down and it looks as though he was eating grass. Sir
Galahad is dressed in his white armor, while his hel-
met is lying on his steed’s saddle. He looks weary and
seems to be resting. They are in a clearing in the forest.
In the background there are dense fields of woodland
and brush. We see fleecy clouds in the sky. These look
just like sheep in the pasture.
bookofshortstories.com15	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
The artist who painted this picture is George Fred-
eric Watts. He was very fond of painting pictures that
would make the people who saw them wish to be find
and pure like the characters in his pictures. This man
painted many portraits of famous people. He won prizes
and went to Italy to study art. Watts painted a portrait
of Lory Tennyson, a noted poet, who wrote a very beau-
tiful poem about Sir Galahad. There are tow lines of if.
“My strength is as the strength of ten,
Because my heart is pure.”
School No. 38	
Betty Ann Vaughan
The Story of Money
A long, long time ago, gold and silver coins were not
used for money. Men traded the things they owned for
the things they wanted.
The Indians used shells for money. They called these
shells wampum. The shells were stung on strings of
skin. Purple clam shells were more valuable than white
shells.
King Croesus, who lived a great many years ago, had
gold fields in his kingdom. This king had money coined
out of this gold. His people bought their food and cloth-
ing with the coins.
Machinery makes the coins that we use now. Years
ago they were made by hand.
School No. 39	
James Shelly
Safety First
	
A book of Short Stories	
I am going to tell you a store about Safety First. There
are very many rules and you should never go against
these rules. I will tell you a story about a boy who said
that Safety rules never helped him, and he wasn’t going
to obey them. All the girls and boys talked to him about
Safety rules but he never listened to them. One day he
was playing ball and the ball rolled into the street. Of
course he didn’t look for cars but ran into the street. A
car came swiftly and hit him. The boy’s mother was
very sad to see him lying in bed. A boy came to call on
him and told him all about Safety rules. The boy joined
a Safety club and won a prize because he had learned
his lesson.
School No. 40	
Floyd Haker
A Beautiful Sight
One drowsy day as I sat looking out of the window
I beheld a beautiful sight. Up in a tree I saw a mother
robin and some tiny babies. The little infants were cud-
dled closely to their mother with their beaks open. The
mother was very excited because she had a large worm
in her mouth. The sight looked so beautiful against the
blossoms that I forgot to do my work. That day I even
petted the cat whom I dread.
School No. 41	
Helen Friedman
The Hike in the Woods
Last Saturday my friends and I started for the woods.
bookofshortstories.com16	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
After we had traveled two miles we came to the woods.
After awhile I cried out, “Look out”, at that second a
big rattle snake came out of the bushes and jumped at
Frank. “Ouch”, cried Frank as the snake’s teeth went
into his leg. “Run for the doctor,” I cried.
All at once Frank dropped to his knees and was dead.
After that we never went to the woods again.
School No. 42	
Joseph Conk
The Nativity
Le Rolle, a French artist, painted this picture which
he named, “The Nativity”. In this picture we can see
the Holy Family sitting on the hay in the stable while
the shepherds are looking in amazement. The donkey
on which Mary and Joseph rode to Bethlehem is shown
standing silently in the foreground. The background
of the picture is lighted by the halo of the Mother and
Child. How peaceful everything looks!
School No. 44	
Peter Szmanda
Kit Kat
You may perhaps think that this is and old title but
that is the name given to my little black kitten about
which I’m writing. I brought her home when she was
about one month old. She was so thin and little my
mother said she would not be bothered with her. But
when she showed that she could be a very nice kitten,
mother let me keep her.
	
A book of Short Stories	
She is about seven months old now. She is as much
a noise maker as we children for she races all over the
house wanting someone to chase her which of course
my little brothers are only too glad to do.
She just knows everything you say to her. It seems as
though she talks right back to you. She is also very curi-
ous. She watches everything that one is doing. Mother
used to call her a queer little Kitty-cat. Finally we cut it
down to Kit-Kat, the name by which she goes now and
probably will always.
School No. 43	
Edgar Burke
Camping With Girl Scouts
In the summer the Girl Scouts go camping and we
sure do do have fun.
We light campfires, put the tents up and when that is
down we cook our meals. We then wash dishes in water
which we carry in buckets from the lake.
There is a good time for all. We study nature, swim,
go rowing and canoeing and ride horseback.
We go to bed early in the evening at about 8 o’clock so
that we can get up early in the morning;.
I tell you it is great fun to be a Girl Scout and I wish
every girl in America would be one.
If you want to join, you must learn the laws, pass a
test, learn signaling.
We have a good captain. Her name is Captain Giel-
niak.
Her is our cheer as I give it to you.
bookofshortstories.com17	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
Hi, Ho, He,
Hi, Ho, He,
Troop 80 -- Troop 80
Girls are we.
Pretty and Good,
Nice and Neat
Troop 80 Girls are hard to beat.
School No. 57	
Dorothy Krzesinska
Oyster Fishing
Where do oysters come from? Oyster fishing is an im-
portant occupation in the eastern United States. More
oysters are taken from Chesapeake Bay than any other
place in the world. Oysters live in shallow bays of salt
water. They live in sand or gravel at the bottom of the
bays. The young oysters are called seed oysters. They
float about for a time and then fasten themselves to a
shell or stone. Now they begin to grow and form a shell.
In the fall or winter men go out in small boats and scoop
the oysters with long handled tongs. They take the oys-
ters to market. Oysters are taken from the shells and
canned or they are packed in ice and transported.
Baltimore, at the head of Chesapeake Bay, is the cen-
ter of the oyster industry. It is the largest oyster market
in the world.
School No. 58	
Henry Majchrzak
The Subject I Like Best
	
A book of Short Stories	
I like the study of geography very much. We are now
studying the South Central states. The interesting thing
about these States is the Mississippi River. Hernando
De Soto discovered it. With its branch, the Missouri, it
is the longest river in the world. It rises in Lake Itasca
in Minnesota. The Mississippi is very muddy and has
brought down so much soil that a delta has been formed
at is [sic] mouth. The plains bordering the Mississippi
are called flood plains because they have been formed
by the overflowing of the river. This soil is fine, deep and
fertile. Agriculture is an important occupation in these
states. Some of the products are cotton, sugar cane and
rice. New Orleans, Louisiana, a very old city, is located
on this river.
School No. 59	
Lorraine Fuhrman
Autumn
This beautify picture was painted by a famous artist
whose name was Anton Mauve. He lived far across the
deep blue ocean in the country of Holland. He liked to
paint pictures of animals but best of all he liked to paint
pictures of sheep.
As we can see, it is growing dark and the weary old
man is slowly plodding along driving his flock of fluffy
white sheep home to the fold. His faithful dog walks be-
side him and keeps the sheep from straying away. The
old man is carrying a little lamt that was probably in-
jured while scampering around in the fields. The shep-
herd’s clothes are well worn, like his slouchy old hat.
bookofshortstories.com18	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
I like this picture because the sheeptender is doing a
kind deed to a dumb animal.
School No. 60	
Evelyn Rohde
	
A book of Short Stories	
town for supplies.
Altogether is [sic] was an interesting trip and I en-
joyed it much.
School No. 61	
Donal Naegely
My Trip to the Thousand Islands
Last summer I went to the Thousand Islands. We
started in the morning. The first city we came to was
Rochester. Next came Syracuse, Oswego and Water-
town. We stayed at a tourist’s camp on the banks of the
St. Lawrence River.
The next morning we took a boat trip to see the is-
lands. We rode about sixteen miles in and out among
them. Most of the islands have beautiful homes sur-
rounded by lovely flower beds that reach to the water’s
edge. There are eight or nine islands joined together by
bridges. These are all owned by one man and they are
called “Little Venice”. We saw the shortest internation-
al bridge in the world which connects two islands, one
in the United States and the other in Canada territory.
We next stopped at Hart Island, which has a large
castle on it. The castle is unfinished because the own-
er’s wife died while it was being built. The rooms in the
castle are very large and have beautiful ceilings. There
is much marble and fine lumber standing unused in this
house. On the island, also, is a children’s play house,
which is like the big castle.
Some of the islands are so small that the cottages
entirely cover them. All the people on the islands have
boat houses instead of garages and drive a motor boat to
Three Pals
Once upon a time in Germany lived three boys. They
were George and his two pals, Jack and Albert. These
boys lived next door to one another.
One hot summer day, while the boys were reading
books about boy scouts, George said, “Let’s go camping
in the woods for a week.”
“O.K.” said Jack. “How about you, Al?”
“K.O., I’m willing”, said Albert.
“Well, you have until Monday to get read for the ad-
venture,” said George.
Monday, Jack was the first one ready. He called his
chums and they set out on the trip to the woods.
When they had gone a mile from town they came to a
big stream. George was thinking how to cross when he
saw five big stones in the water about a foot apart. He
said, “Let’s step on the stones and cross the stream.”
When they were across the stream, Jack saw a good
camping ground on a hill in the forest. When it was
time to eat Jack was the cook. Albert was the guard and
George chopped wood for fuel. for supper they had ba-
con, eggs, a cup of coffee and three pieces of toast.
After four days had passed away, all the food was
gone so the boys went home. The next time they went
bookofshortstories.com19	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
camping they took more food.
School No. 62	
George Maurer
Trying to Make Mother Sorry
It was a beautiful summer day and little Mary Jane
wanted to go out to play. She was helping her mother do
the work around the house. Her mother had promised
Mary that when she had finished sweeping the floor she
could go out.
Instead of sweeping the dirt out, Mary Jane swept it
under the stove. When her mother learned what she had
done, she planned to punish her. The punishment was
to keep Mary Jane in for the rest of the afternoon.
Mary Jane decided she would make her mother sorry,
so she went to the attic to hide. The hours passed very
slowly and she grew restless. It began to get dark and
Mary Jane became frightened. She heard the boards
crack and imagined she heard mice. At last she gave up
and went downstairs only to learn her cousins had been
to see her and had gone.
Mary Jane realized that instead of her mother being
sorry, she was sorry herself.
School No. 63	
Betty Yox
Cotton
Did you ever realize how much cotton meant to us? It
is more useful than any other cloth we have. Would you
like to know how it is grown? Early in the spring the
	
A book of Short Stories	
seeds are planted. About two weeks later little sprouts
are seen. It takes seven months for its full growth. Then
it looks as if there had been a snow storm for the cotton
has burst from the seed pod and is ready for picking.
Negroes pick it because they can stand the heat better
than white people can. After it is picked it is weighed
and sent through a cotton gin which takes the seeds
out. It is then packed in bales and sent to different cit-
ies, where it is made into cloth.
Maybe the dress you have on came from our own
Southern States.
School No. 65	
Lucille Manthei
A Day at the Park
During the Christmas vacation, my cousins and I
went to the park.
It was a crisp, cold day. Mother Nature had covered
the earth with a sparkling blanket of snow. The sun,
which was brightly shining, made the earth glisten with
millions of tiny diamonds. It was an ideal day for skat-
ing. The ice looked like a polished mirror. There wasn’t
even a crack in it. What fun we had gliding across the
ice ! Later we played “Tag”.
When we reached home we were very tired, but hap-
py. I shall always remember that jolly day.
School No. 66	
Rosalie Hall
The Pony Express
bookofshortstories.com20	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
In early days it was very difficult to send mail from
one place to another. So they introduced The Pony Ex-
press in our country.
The trail was from St. Josephs to Sacramento. The rid-
ers had to be strong, brave, and courageous. They had to
be patient and cheerful, ready to meet with any hard-
ships.
The Pony Express included five hundred swift, strong
horses and employed eighty-three riders. Each rider had
three ponies. They changed ponies at the second sta-
tion, and went on to the third station. At the third sta-
tion a new rider would be waiting for the other rider to
give the mail, and the new rider continued on his way.
They carried twenty pounds of mail.
They met savage Indians, and large bands of robbers.
They fought savage beasts. Would you like to be a Pony
Express rider?
School No. 69	
Billy W. Edmunds
The Dance of the Nymphs
This fantastic picture was painted by Corot, a French
artist. The early morning sunlight peeping through the
weird trees casts grotesque shadows upon the ground.
The nymphs seem to be enjoying themselves extremely
in this quite forest glade. The group in the center is the
group that the artist takes the most notice of because
the sunlight falls upon it, while the others are in the
shadow. I think that Corot had a highly imaginative
mind and wanted us to understand some of his fanciful
	
A book of Short Stories	
thoughts.
School No. 41	
David O. Cooke
Little Johnny
There was once a little boy whose name was “Johnny”.
He was a little boy of five. He was in kindergarten. One
day when Johnny went to school his teacher scolded
him for not being clean. That afternoon when he went
home for dinner his mother scolded him for not being
clean too. She asked him where he got so dirty. Johnny
did not know what to say for he did not know. The next
day his mother washed him good and clean. His teacher
said he looked like a new boy now. He was a very good
boy in school that day. When he went home for dinner
his mother said that he looked very, very clean. So she
gave him a big cookie.
School No. 71	
Palma Saviola
A Trip to the Museum
A snowy day we were on our way to the Museum.
What a pretty scene Humboldt Park was! The trees
were dressed in their white garb. When we entered the
Museum we took off our wraps, and went to a room
where we listened to the interesting things Mr. Alox-
ander [sic] had to tell us. He showed pictures of birds
and gave facts about them. Then we went to another
room where we saw various stuffed birds. Other rooms
were visited. In one there were cards with questions. It
bookofshortstories.com21	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
was fun answering these questions. Later we went to
the reading room. The instructor invited us to take any
book we wanted. Our enjoyable morning at the Muse-
um was over. We put on our wraps and were soon ready
for the pleasant ride home.
School No. 73	
Salvator Scime
Spring
	
A book of Short Stories	
ets and red caps trimmed with white feathers. They had
planted a thorn tree and were dancing gaily around it.
They seemed very happy. A silver crescent hung low in
the sky. Dark pines stood like sentinels guarding the
entrance to this magic gen. Suddenly one of the elves
spied me sitting on the hill and said, “He will make a
fine boy to do our work.” As they rushed toward me I
cried, “Mother! Fathers! Save me from these little fel-
lows.” At that moment, I felt my mother shake me and
heard her toll me to get up. She laughed as I told her
about my experience in Dreamland.
School No. 75	
Joel Wofford
This picture “Spring” was painted by a very well-
known French artist, Corot. In this beautiful landscape
picture the first thing you will notice is the mighty
oak with her graceful drooping branches. In the back-
ground there is a cool, calm lake. Still farther back are
more trees, whose beautiful shadows reflect on the
cool, quiet body of water. As you will notice, this artist
is very wise, he put only a few people in his painting
just to add a little more coloring to the scene. It seems
as though the children might be welcoming Spring, the
grass seems such a fresh green. The most important
color in this picture is green.
I think this is a very attractive outdoor scene of
Spring. Don’t you?
School No. 72	
Bernice Learman Have you ever heard of Toby Tyler? I know him. I think
you would like to know him too. Toby was a dissatisfied
little boy who lived with his Uncle Daniel. He ran away
with a circus. Here, he worked for a cruel master. His
best friend was Mr. Stubbs, an old monkey. Toby had
many interesting experiences while in the circus. If you
like stories of adventure, I’d advise you to read Toby Ty-
ler by James Otis.
School No. 76	
Thomas Adair
In the Valley Pretending
One evening, as I walked along a country road, I
heard strange music. I followed the sound. To my sur-
prise, I found a group of tiny men dressed in green jack- I am an arithmetic book. Some boys and girls do not
like me. They like to study other books that they think
are more interesting. I am very sad when they throw me
Toby Tyler
bookofshortstories.com22	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
into their desks. They do not think that I have any feel-
ing at all but I have and this kind of treatment hurts me
very much. Some day I am going to fool them and change
covers with their favorite book. Then when they open
their book they will see me, arithmetic. Ha! ha! That
would be funny !
School No. 77	
Ann MacDonald
Children of Ancient Britain
“Children of Ancient Britain”, an interesting book
was written by L. Lamprey. The important characters
are Little Red Head, Machcha, and Miria. They lived in
a wild country which is now called Britain. Everybody
liked Machcha because he was a fine fisherman and
could make fine fishing hooks and lines so strong that
they would not break. When little Red Head was seven
years old the family moved. Machcha took his stone ace,
spears and a few ornaments and trinkets with him. They
paddled down stream to a village where they built their
home. Machcha and his family lived happily for some
time until the Fint people made war on them. Machcha
sent the people down to the river to their boats. During
this skirmish so many Fint people lost their lives that
peace was declared and Machcha and the Fint family
became friends. If you like adventurous stories I’m sure
you would enjoy reading, “Children of Ancient Britain.”
School No. 78	
Richard Henning
A Boy with a Rabbit
	
A book of Short Stories	
The picture in our room “A Boy with a Rabbit” was
painted by Sir Henry Raeburn, a Scotch artist. He was
considered Scotland’s greatest portrait painter.
The bunny and the boy are painted in light colors
while the background is dark in contrast. The boy, who
is dressed in light, cool, comfortable clothes, is gently
encircling his bunny. Bunny, with his fluffy whit fur,
floppy ears and bright pink eyes, is wrinkling up his
nose as he contentedly eats leaves from his master’s
hand.
I like this picture because it looks so peaceful and
real.
School No. 79	
Joseph Kaleta
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine
“The fence has three boards broken off, and I think it
is time to do some repairing,” said mother.
“Why bother now, wait until it’s worth while fixing,”
grumbled Jack.
“Alright, only it will mean more work in the end,” re-
plied mother.
Many days passed and the fence had five more boards
broken off.
Jack then set to work with great haste but a whole
day went by before the fence was again in place. After
the work was finished Jack returned to the house, tired
and weary from the long day’s work.”Well, mother, that
time a stitch in time would have saved nine.”
School No. 80	
Betty Schill
bookofshortstories.com23	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
The Young Woodchoppers
It was early in the morning. “Bill”, said his mother
“you will have to chop wood for the day because your
father is in town and he will not be back until night.”
“Alright, mother” said Bill. He went in the yard but on
the way he saw his dog chasing a cat up a tree, so he
called to his dog and started chopping wood. He said
to the dog, “I wish you could chop wood too.” All of a
sudden three boys came up to him. “Are you going fish-
ing?” asked on of the three boys. “I have to chop wood.”
“Well, good-bye”, said the three boys. “Good-by”, said
Bill. Bill’s mother had heard him. She said, “Bill, you may
go fishing with them. Her is your fishing pole.” When
Bill came home he had a basket full of fish for supper.
After spending such a happy afternoon, he was very
willing to go back to chopping wood.
School No. 81	
Fred Sepp
	
A book of Short Stories	
train comes and on the other side of the room we have a
crossing gate that goes down when the train gets to it.
My brothers and I spend hours playing with the set,
loading and unloading the cars and stopping the train
at different stations.
School No. 74	
Carlton Gerbracht
Curiosity Once Killed a Cat
My Electric Train One night I had nothing to do. Wandering to the
medicine cabinet I saw a bottle one inch high. Wonder-
ing what could be in such a small bottle I uncorked it
and put it to my nose. Oh! What a strong smell it had.
Luck as against me. I got some right in my eye and on
my neck. How I jumped. I think I must have jumped for
five minutes. When the effects wore off I read the label
on the bottle. It said, Oil of Mustard, Poison. Neverthe-
less, I am alive and now I read labels before uncorking
bottles.
School No. 45	
Donald M. Jenkins
For a long time I wanted and electric train and when
I awoke last Christmas morning I was surprised to find
a great big one under our Christmas tree.
There were so many tracks with it that it took us
almost an hour just to put them together. We planned
them so they pass behind the piano and take up nearly
the whole room.
The set consists of six cars with a caboose with a light
on for the end. We have a tunnel that lights up when the One day while we were in Canada I was walking with
my cousin, who was telling me about the blizzards they
have. When he looked up at the sky, he exclaimed, “By
Jove, it looks as if we’re going to have one now! Come on,
let’s get everything into the barn.”
I asked if it were that bad, when suddenly a great
wind came up and a fierce snowstorm began. “Quick”,
A Blizzard in Canada
bookofshortstories.com24	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
said my cousin, “We’ve got to run and get in the house.
Keep following me.”
For a little while I could see him but then the storm got
worse and I lost sight of him. I could not see anything. I
was so frightened and out of breath that I did not know
whether to stop and wait for help or keep running. Then
I heard a chicken and I knew that it musty have come
out of the yard, so I figured that I must be near the farm-
house. I ran in the direction I heard the chicken. I kept
running 8until suddenly I heard some voices. They were
scolding my cousin for not taking better care of me. I
shouted, “Here I am”, as loud as I could for I was weak
from running. When they got to me I told them it was
not my cousin’s fault. After I got into the house I said
that a chicken had helped me find the way.
School No. 53	
Eunice Hayman
Lost in the Woods
My father is a minister. Nearly every year we move,
sometimes to the country, sometimes to the city. We
were in the country last Spring.
The first real event was going May flowering. My
mother, David and Frances went with me. We soon
came upon a lovely patch of little flowers. My sister and
I were not satisfied. We went farther and farther into
the woods in search of better flowers. We thought the
others would follow. It was not until we were very far
from them that we began to realize that we were lost.
We sat down on a log for there was nothing else to do.
	
A book of Short Stories	
After what seemed hours we heard our names called.
We got up and ran as fast as our legs could carry us in
the direction of the sound. We soon came upon David
and Mother. Mother’s face was white. I knew she had
been greatly alarmed. You may rightly believe we never
ventured away again while May flowering.
School No. 54	
Elizabeth White
Friends Again
Last summer Red, a boy friend of mine and I went
down to the scout troop. We were both good friends.
When we got down there the scouts were playing bas-
ketball so we joined in the game. One of the boys who
disliked me pushed me into Red. He got mad and started
an argument which ended up in a fight. The Scoutmas-
ter told Red he was in the wrong. Red said something
that the Scoutmaster didn’t like and he put Red out of
our club. Then Red said he would get even with me. Af-
ter this he was my worst enemy.
But a few weeks after that we went on a hike and
Red went with us. We were suppose to bring money
for our lunch because we were going to eat at a country
hotel. When it came time to eat I had lost my money.
The Scoutmaster asked the boys if they had found it but
they said no. They all we4nt out and looked for it but
we couldn’t find it. Then Red said he had some money.
The Scoutmaster said, “How much money have you”?
Red replied, “Oh, abut forty cents.” Then the Scoutmas-
ter asked, “How can you buy Bill’s lunch and yours too
bookofshortstories.com25	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
with only forty cents?” But Red replied, “Bill and I will
go halvers. Bill will have twenty cents worth of lunch
and I will have the other twenty cents. Bill and I want
to be friends.” I was surprised when he said this. So he
paid for my lunch.
The thing that impressed me most was that my worst
enemy was willing to share with me what he should
have had for himself.
School No. 55	
William Mollwitz
Letchworth Park
Did you ever stop to think that it is not necessary to
travel hundreds of miles to see beautiful scenery? Here
in New York State are many splendid works of nature.
One which attracts many visitors is Letchworth Park.
This park which belongs to the state, is at the upper and
middle Portage Falls. The narrow Genesee River has
cut its way through the tree-clad cliffs. The bushy trees
with dense foliage make a scene of extraordinary beau-
ty. The colorful falls immediately attracts the visitor’s
attention. The sparkling water tumbles over the steep
rocks in the river. For anyone who cares for the works of
nature, Letchworth Park offers unusual attractions.
School No. 56	
June Seufert
Timepieces
Years ago time was of little value to the people. All they
cared to know were the two things, day and night.
	
A book of Short Stories	
Time was first measured by shadows cast by trees.
Where the shadow fell at noon was marked and the rest
of the time was told by that mark.
The sundial was the first timepiece. It was only used
on sunny days.
One day while a man was filling a jar from a spring, he
saw the sundial move a little. He watched it fa few days
and at last made a water clock. This kind of timepiece
was used for more than two thousand years.
King Alfred invented the notched candle. The dis-
tance between the notches told the time.
The hour glass came next and was the best timepiece
for many years.
In 1335 an English man made the first clock and later
a German made the first pocket clock or watch.
School No. 51	
Charles Houck
The Vikings
The Vikings were bold, daring sailors. they lived in
Norway and Sweden. They had ships with both sails
and oars. They were the first to discover North America.
Eric the Red killed a man and was forced to leave home.
Then he found Iceland and made it his home. He had a
quarrel over seaports and again was forced to leave his
home. He got ready his ships and followers and sailed
west until he came to Greenland. Then Leif the Luck,
Eric’s son, engaged thirty-five men and explored to the
west until he discovered North America. They named
it Vinland because there were so many grapes. The
bookofshortstories.com26	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
Vikings didn’t settle in America because the Indians
drove them out. The later explorers thought they were
first because the Northmen left no trace or record of
their explorations.
School No. 28	
Lorraine Kreiger
The Grand Canyon
Castles and towers and silvery streams,
The Grand Canyon has ways of proving these
dreams,
Rainbows and shelves along the walls,
And fairy dreams come true watching the falls.
In this beautiful scenery men of long ago,
Fought many hardships which were their foe,
Many rapids and falls make scenery so,
Because brave Major Powel fought through it blow by
blow.
School No. 67	
Charles Samson
The Song of the Lark
One of the pictures that I have admired this year is,
“The Song of the Lark”, which was painted by a famous
French artist named Jules Adolphe Breton.
In the picture is seen the sun just rising over the dis-
tant tree tops. Although it is scarcely light enough to
see clearly, a French peasant girl is on her way to work.
She is carrying a sickle with which she cuts the grain
in the surrounding fields. Her dress is very plain but
	
A book of Short Stories	
suitable for her work. She wears no shoes or stockings.
Her hands and feet appear large and hardened from the
sun and wind. But the expression on her face tells us
that she is very happy as she stands and listens to th4e
beautiful song the skylark is singing.
Her cheering song will make her work seem lighters.
The pictures shows us the pleasant things in country
life.
Some day I hope to see the original painting which
hangs in the Art Institute in Chicago.
School No. 52	
Bernice Thiel
My Pet Dog
When I was four years old I had a little dog named
Benny. He was a faithful dog to our family. He used to
take care of me when I was little. Mother always trusted
Benny because he was never known to leave me or allow
anyone to touch me.
One day when I was in the house playing with my
dolls, Benny was not with me. I knew that the back door
was open and I could get outdoors without being seen.
So I got my dolly all dressed up because I was going to
take her too. I put my coat and hat on and started off.
My dolly and I got outdoors and had started down the
lane to the canal when I felt something p7ulling on my
dress. I looked around and there was Benny. Oh, how
angry I was. I slapped Benny but he knew I was doing
wrong. He pulled me home. When I got home mother
and my grandmother were looking for me. When they
bookofshortstories.com27	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
saw Benny pulling me they gave on scream and rant to
me and Benny. Benny wagged his tail. Mother put me to
bed, but she gave Benny a big piece of meat.
School No. 76	
Josephine Nola
Pilgrims Going To Church
George H. Boughton, the well-known artist of Pil-
grim pictures, painted “Pilgrims Going to Church”.
The scene shows a cold, dark day in winter. The soft,
grey light gives the feeling of more snow on the way.
We see a small band of courageous Pilgrims on its way
across a field of snow to church. No one is talking for
all know well the danger of an Indian attack. The men
carry muskets to protect their little group against the
red men. Men at the head and rear of the procession
guard the women and children who are in the center of
the picture. The minister and his wife follow the front
guards.The old religious man walks along unconscious
of his surroundings, while his wife seems very calm and
brave. Perhaps she is trying to give courage to those fol-
lowing. Only one of the Pilgrim women seems fright-
ened as we notice her staring in the direction of the
dark pine woods. The man at the extreme right of the
picture is holding out his hands as if to give a signal of
immediate danger. Steadfast and true to their ideals the
Pilgrims are ready to risk their lives.
The original of this picture hangs in the Lenox Gal-
lery of the Public Library in new Your City.
School No. 72	
Norma Young
	
A book of Short Stories	
Flax
The first thing that I remember was that I was a little
blue flower growing in the field. The sun kissed me and
the rain watered me. People said that I looked exceed-
ingly well, and that I was so fine and long that I should
make a beautiful piece of linen. I was the happiest crea-
ture in the world. One day some people came who took
hold of me. They pulled me up by the roots. This gave
me great pain. Next I was put near the fire to dry. I was
broken and combed and placed on a wheel that made
my head whirl. At last I came out a long piece of linen.
One day while I was on the table I heard a voice say,
“Oh! I have spilled the milk.” I felt very badly but I was
taken off and washed and ironed. After a long time I
heard that I was getting old. What do you think? I was
made into twelve napkins. When I began to tear I was
placed in a big bag. A man carried me away. I was thrown
into a wagon. He brought me into a factory and there I
was made into paper. After this people made books out
of me. They put black print on me. Now I am read by
many children. This is the end of my story.
School No. 73	
Mary Failla
A Paper Doll Fashion Show
Last Sunday Bernadetta and I had a paper doll fashion
show. We each had four dolls. We put dresses on them
and made them promenade around the room. We then
chose the doll we liked the best. I chose a doll with a
bookofshortstories.com28	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
pink dress with ruffles and puffed sleeves. Bernadetta
chose a doll with a blue dress trimmed with lace. Don’t
you wish you could have been with us?
School No. 71	
Lucille Di Pirro
	
A book of Short Stories	
After a trip through Boston a visitor feels as though
he had really been there during the stirring times of the
Revolution. Indeed, the city is like a fascinating story
book.
School No. 69	
Doris Bruce
Natives of the Amazon Valley
Few people have visited the natives of the Amazon
Valley. They have dark, flashing eyes, thick, ruddy lips
and dark complexions. These natives wear necklaces of
monkey’s teeth, bracelets and anklets from the seeds
of plants. Their houses look like giant haystacks with
the roofs thatched with palm leaves and dried grass.
The food consists of monkey meat, parrots, turtle eggs,
and manion bread. Isn’t it queer that they sleep in ham-
mocks for beds?
School No. 69	
Martha Meerboth
Boston
All through the city of Boston we can see interesting
sights which remind us of famous events which hap-
pened there years ago. Many noted men lived there in
olden days.
One of the famous sections of Boston is the Old North
End. The home of Paul Revere is there. Here also we see
the Old North Church. We can go to the church where
the lanterns were hung to warn Paul Revere the British
troops were coming. Another interesting place is Grif-
fin’s Wharf, where the famous Tea Party took place.
The Gleaners
“The Gleaners” was painted by Jean Francois Millet.
This picture takes us to a wheat field in France. The
overseer had ridden over the field and saw that many
stalks of wheat had been left by the reapers. He sent
these peasant women, who are called gleaners, to gather
this wheat so there would be no waste. The women took
up the lower corners of their aprons and tied them in a
knot at the back. This made a bag into which they could
put the wheat. The woman at the right has straightened
up a little to rest her back. The woman at the left has
placed her left hand on her back to balance herself. The
one in the middle is going on steadily with her work.
In the background there are other gleaners who are
doing the same work. There are also large stacks of
wheat and mean who are bringing the wheat to make
the stacks. There are trees and behind the trees you can
see the tops of buildings which may be their homes or
barn in which they store the wheat. The sky is grayish
blue which tells that it is late in the afternoon. Every-
one seems to be hurrying to get their work done before
dark. I like the picture because it shows the peasants
at work.
bookofshortstories.com29	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
June Hartman
School No. 67	
The Grand Canyon of the Colorado
The Grand Canyon is in Arizona in the Colorado Riv-
er. It was formed by this river cutting its way through
the jagged rocs and cliffs of great mountains. This can-
yon is one mile wide and two hundred miles long. If
you should look down from the top of one of these great
yawning precipices you would see what looks like a sil-
ver thread far below winding its way between tall cliffs.
Two hundred miles of wonderful crimson and orange
Chinese temples, palaces and giant staircases is a mag-
nificent sight. The beautifully colored rocks all glow in
the sunset. The sun out of sight and the pine trees whis-
pering a good night song we now say good bye to the
greatest and most beautiful canon in the world.
School No. 67	
Betty Anderson
A Loyal Friend
One crisp, clear winter day, and ideal day for skating,
Bob decided to try his skates, for he had received a pair
of shiny new ones for Christmas.
His faithful dog, Spot, went with him. When Bobby
reached the pond, he did not stop to test the ice. He was
having a delightful time when suddenly Spot began to
bark, for his keen ears had caught the sound of cracking
ice. Bb did not heed him, but kept on skating. Suddenly
the ice gave way. Spot dashed to the place where his
	
A book of Short Stories	
little master had disappeared and with some difficulty
succeeded in pulling him out. It was luck for Bob that a
friendly neighbor happened to be passing, for he carried
him home.
As a result, Bob had a sever cold all that week. After
that experience, he never neglected to find out if the ice
was solid before he went skating.
School No. 66	
Solomon Goldberg
The Indian Weaver
In the grassy fields of a canyon an Indian family is
grouped watching an Indian weaver. They are robed
in their colorful native garb. The warrior is weaving a
beautiful rug. The Indians are watching eagerly to see
what the main design will be. There is a cunning pa-
poose in a strapped cradle. He does not seem to be in-
terested in what his father is making. The steep canyon
walls in the background are reflected in the clear crys-
tal waters of the stream below. Don’t you think this is a
very picturesque spot?
An artist by the name of Robert Wesley Amick paint-
ed this beautiful scene. He studied Indian life and lived
among the Indians for many years. He has painted many
other pictures of Indian life.
School No. 64	
Carlotta Haines
Our Safety Club
In our room we have a Safety Club. All the children in
bookofshortstories.com30	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
our class are members and try to obey the safety rules.
We help other little children keep the rules. Would you
like to know some of the rules we keep? Here are some.
We always mind the Junior Police.
We are careful never to throw icy snow balls.
We put ashes on the icy sidewalks.
We cross with the signal.
We play in our yard, not in the street.
Don’t you want to join our Safety Club? We want you
to.
School No. 61	
Helen Buchwald
Our Schoolroom
Our schoolroom is an oblong room with four large
windows in the back. On three sides are large black-
boards of slate. Our desks are kept in straight rows.
Along the tops of the blackboards are pictures and vers-
es about Christmas. Each child has a separate book for
each subject. In the room hanging on the walls above
the blackboards are some very beautiful pictures. The
names of them are: “The Deer in the Forest at Twilight”,
“Angel Heads”, “The Pioneers” and “The Representative
to the Humane Society”. Our schoolroom is kept very
neat most of the time. It is kept very warm and comfort-
able by a large furnace in the basement.
School No. 60	
Dorothy Hards
An Adventure of Sir Lancelot
	
A book of Short Stories	
One day as Sir Lancelot was strolling in the court-
yard, he spied a maiden riding toward the palace. Ap-
proaching her he asked, “What dos thou want?”
“My aunt’s enemies took our castle while everybody
was away,”: replied the maiden. “The also captured my
aunt.. Will you save her?”
“I shall,” answered Sir Lancelot.
He donned his beautiful armor, took his shield and
sword, mounted his horse, and they were off.
Suddenly the castle loomed up before them! The youth
who guarded it was board-shouldered and strongly
built, but when he heard hoof beats he was terrified.
“Who dares to go within reach of my sword?” he
cried.
“I do,” replied Sir Lancelot, as he advanced.
Our hero rushed upon the guard and soon overcame
him. The captured aunt was quickly rescued. You can
imagine how graciously the maiden thanked brave Sir
Lancelot.
School No. 59	
Maurice Koren
Bob’s Merry Christmas
It was Christmas Eve. All the people were bustling
home from their day’s work. A small figure could be
seen trudging down one of the brightly lighted streets
of New York. He paused in front of a toy shop and gave
a longing glance at a shiny new sled that lay in the win-
dow. “Only five dollars,” the tag red but Bob knew that
it was far beyond his reach. He turned away and passed
bookofshortstories.com31	
By Fifth Grade Pupils
on. Finally he came to a dingy looking gray stone house
on a long, narrow street. He walked up three flights of
stairs and entered a narrow doorway in the garret. In
the room were four pieces of furniture, two broken-
down cots, a chair, more or less damaged, and a table
that stood on three and a half legs. In the chair sat a
woman.
“Oh, Bob,” said she, “I am so worried. Our funds are
low and the landlord raised the rent a dollar.”
“That’s all right, mother, “ replied Bob, “I am sure ev-
erything will turn out for the best.”
“I hope so and wish I had your spirit, Bob,” answered
his mother.
After they had eaten their scanty meal they went to
bed, if it could be called a bed.
Now it happened that nearby lived a wealthy old
gentleman who had taken a great fancy to Bob and his
mother. He had often sent his negro servant to watch the
actions of the couple. On this very night he had heard
Bob’s mother’s remarks. He reported it to his master,
who at once was very busy. He went from store to store
buying many things, a Christmas tree, a basket of provi-
sions and the sled Bob had so longingly looked at. That
night had Bob and his mother been awake they would
have been alarmed to see a dark face appear at the sky-
light. It was opened by a husky figure who dropped cat-
like to the floor carrying many bundles.
Just as the moon was fading and the first pink streaks
of dawn were lighting the eastern sky the figure closed
	
A book of Short Stories	
the skylight and disappeared. When Bob awoke he
thought he was in a dream for the hot breakfast, the
sled and Christmas tree seemed all unreal. He reached
out cautiously and touched the sled. No it was real! He
raised a shout that awoke his mother and then showed
her all the splendid things. When he had finished he
said between mouthfuls of buttered toast, “Now who
said there isn’t a Santa Clause, Mother?”
School No. 56	
William Burgard
Lucky For Me
One day when my mother sent me to the tailor to
get my suit, I played on the street and lost the check. I
went home and told my mother what had happened. She
was just about to punish me when a boy came upstairs
with the check. You may be sure I was glad to see that
check.
School No. 48	
Lidelotte Groen
bookofshortstories.com
